---
title:  "My 2020 Data Science Recap!"
excerpt: "How I got started on this awesome journey + <br> my favorite personal projects of the year!"
date:   2020-12-30
permalink: /data-science-recap/
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/new-year.jpg
  overlay_image: /assets/images/new-year.jpg
---

It was a rainy, dark, fall afternoon in 2019. I sat in my room with nothing to do. Class was over, homework completed, 
and no major sports were on tv to consume my evening (it was Wednesday, still one more day until Thursday Night Football).
I had been thinking of something for a while now, and as I lie on my bed, staring at the ceiling, I figured it was time to 
turn this *thinking* into *doing*. There wasn't a more perfect night for what I had planned so long to do, and I figured, 
"If not now, when?". So, I opened my laptop, hopped on Youtube, and searched "Python tutorial". I finally brought myself to it. 
I was going to learn how to code.

---

Fast forward a year and here we are. I code pretty much every day and plan to pursue a career out of it. I genuinely enjoy it and
have done things I never thought I would be able to that one fall night when I felt like banging my head on the wall, struggling 
with the python tutroial wondering what the hell I had just gotten myself into. I persisted, however, and gradually learned into
the spring of 2020. I really hit my stride in terms of progression when COVID-19 took over the world. With nothing to do inside 
during quarantine, I dedicated myself to learning as much python as I could, which really helped the process. Conveniently, 
spring of 2020 was when my University introduced their Computational Data Science program, which motivated me even more. In fact, 
once I found out about this program I went straight to student services, dropped all four of my classes (this was only the second 
day of the semester) and reregistered for CDS classes to start my progress within the program. The timing really could not have
been more perfect! I still have infinite room for growth and improvement and am far from where I want myself to be, but still pleased 
with my progress one year in.

---

I figured it would be fun to share my favorite projects during this first year of my coding expereince. So, without further ado, lets get
into it!

1. NFL Receiver Dashboard

2. My [twitter](https://twitter.com/mnpykings) account

3. Python Data Science Tutorial using NFL Play-by-Play Data

4. This website!
